---
layout: post
title: "Louise Glück - Faithful and Virtuous Night"
date: 2024-04-12
tags: reading-journal
---

I don’t read a lot of poetry. I often wish I read more, but I often find poetry difficult to get into the right headspace for. So I think it says something that Glück is the only poet I’ve read two collections by. 

I previously read *Averno* when on the Isle of Skye, and the experience of reading it really fused with the landscape in my memory and made it seem like the two were made for each other. Poems often alluding to our relationship with nature and the earth around us and being among that quiet hilly landscape so far from other people.

*Faithful and Virtuous Night* left a similar mark on me where I feel like how I read it blends in so much with what I read. My wife was recovering from surgery and we were sleeping in separate beds. I have been trying to recover my previous reading habits and stop staring into the smart device attention void in the mornings, and so I was already keeping my phone outside the bedroom and a book on the table instead. So I’d go downstairs after waking up with my book and read it beside her. Dreams and sleep feature so much in the collection and it gets so mixed up in the slightly groggy state where I often had to reread each poem multiple times in a different bed from my usual.

It seems wrong to think that I just happened to magically pick up Glück at the perfect time and place in a way that nothing else usually makes me feel my surroundings merge into the reading experience twice in a row. I feel like she must inspire deep reflection in me that just makes me more aware of my environment.

The collection itself made me feel something else similar to *Averno* where what is being described and alluded to and shown to me is beyond language. It’s more like a place where other words collide that we haven’t named yet? And all she can do is describe what you see through tiny peepholes in the veil when you look at it from this angle or that angle. Somewhere the march of time, death, dreams and sleep, and how difficult it is to face any of it.

I swear there is a quote attributed to Bukowski about how poetry can say much more than prose but with far few words. All my rambling would add up to four of the poems in the collection in word count and yet I can only tell you how I’m unable to explain what I mean.
 
